[docs] Updated Windows build instructions (#1312)
Haivision/srt: docs/build-win.md

    - [2.2.2. Building PThreads](#222-building-pthreads)
      - [2.2.2.1. Using vcpkg](#2221-using-vcpkg)
      - [2.2.2.2. Using NuGet](#2222-using-nuget)
      - [2.2.2.3. Build pthreads4w from Sources](#2114-build-pthreads4w-from-sources)
      - [2.2.2.4. Build pthread-win32 from Sources](#2114-build-pthread-win32-from-sources)
- [3. Building SRT](#3-building-srt)
  - [3.1. Cloning the Source Code](#31-cloning-the-source-code)
  - [3.2. Generate Build Files](#32-generating-build-files)
  - [3.3. Build SRT](#33-build-srt)

<!-- /TOC -->

## 1. Prerequisites

### 1.1. Build Tool Dependencies

The following are the recommended prerequisites to build `srt` on Windows.

- [CMake](http://www.cmake.org/) v2.8.12 or higher (cross-platform family of tools to build software)
- [git](https://git-scm.com/about) client (source code management tool)
- [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/downloads/) (compiler and linker)

### 1.2. External Library Dependencies

#### 1.2.1. Cryptograpjic Library

SRT has an external dependency on **cryptographic library**.
This dependency can be disabled with the `-DENABLE_ENCRYPTION=OFF` CMake build option.

> Then SRT will be able to operate only in unencrypted mode.

Reviewer: I'd write it rather this way.

This dependency can be disabled by `-DENABLE_ENCRYPTION=OFF` CMake build option. With disabled encryption SRT will be unable to make or accept encrypted connections.

Author: With the disabled `enforced encryption` SRT will be able to establish a connection.

Author: Replacing with the following text
>This dependency can be disabled by `-DENABLE_ENCRYPTION=OFF` CMake build option.
With disabled encryption SRT will be unable to estabish secure connections,
only unencrypted mode can be used.

Reviewer: Good, just mind  that you made a typo again in "estabish".

To be able to use SRT encryption,

> one of the following Crypto libraries is required:

Reviewer: I'd rather say:

If encryption is to be enabled, one of the following cryptographic libraries is required:

Author: Replacing with:
>With the enabled SRT encryption,
one of the following Crypto libraries is required:

Reviewer: Fair enough.

> - `OpenSSL` (recommended)

Reviewer: OpenSSL is default, not "recommended".

- `LibreSSL`
- `MbedTLS`

#### 1.2.2. Threading Library

SRT as of v1.5.0 supports two threading libraries:

- `pthreads` (default)

> - C++11 threads (recommended for Windows)

Reviewer: I'd rather say "Standard C++ thread library (available in C++11)"

The `pthreads` library is available on the most of non-Windows platforms.
However, on Windows a ported library has to be used.

> Therefore, C++11 is the recommended build mode to be used on Windows platforms.

Reviewer: Maybe:

The `pthreads` library is provided out-of-the-box on all POSIX-based systems. On Windows it can be provided as a 3rd party library (see below). However the C++ standard thread library is recommended as more stable and reliable.

### 1.3. Package Managers

#### 1.3.1. VCpkg Packet Manager (optional)

[vcpkg](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg) is a C++ library manager for Windows, Linux and MacOS.
Consider its [prerequisites](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/README.md#quick-start) before proceeding.

The `vcpkg` library manager has preconfigured building procedures for `OpenSSL` and `pthreads` libraries.
They can be easily built and further used as dependencies of SRT library.

**Note!** `vcpkg` does not support `LibreSSL` or `MbedTLS` libraries.

Clone `vcpkg` using git, and build it.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git
cd vcpkg
.\bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
```

The current working directory will further be referenced as `VCPKG_ROOT`.

```shell
set VCPKG_ROOT=%cd%
```

#### 1.3.2. NuGet Manager (optional)

> NuGet Manager can be used to...

Reviewer: Incomplete?

Author: Added NuGet description.

## 2. Preparing Dependencies

> ### 2.1 Cryptograpjic Library

Reviewer: Isn't it a word-to-word repeating of 1.2.1 paragraph (line 47)?

**One** of the following Crypto libraries is required:

- `OpenSSL` (recommended)
- `LibreSSL`
- `MbedTLS`

> Alternatively, SRT can be build without support for encryption

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, SRT can be built without support for encryption
```

using the `-DENABLE_ENCRYPTION=OFF` CMake build option.
In this case SRT will be able to operate only in unencrypted mode.

#### 2.1.1. Install OpenSSL

##### 2.1.1.1. Using vcpkg

**Note!** The `vcpkg` working directory is referenced as `VCPKG_ROOT`.

Building `openssl` library using **x64** toolset:

```shell
cd VCPKG_ROOT
vcpkg install openssl --triplet x64-windows
```

The next step is to integrate `vcpkg` with the build system, so that `CMake` can locate `openssl` library.

```shell
vcpkg integrate install
```

CMake will be able to find openssl given the following option is provided:

```shell
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=%VCPKG_ROOT%\\scripts\\buildsystems\\vcpkg.cmake
```

##### 2.1.1.2. Using Installer (Windows)

> The 64-bit OpenSSL package for windows can be downloaded using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 64-bit OpenSSL package for Windows can be downloaded using
```

the following link: [Win64OpenSSL_Light-1_1_1c](http://slproweb.com/download/Win64OpenSSL_Light-1_1_1c.exe).

> **Note!** The last letter or version number may be changed and older versions may become no longer available. In that case found the appropriate installer here: [Win32OpenSSL](http://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note!** The last letter or version number may change and older versions may become no longer available. In that case find the appropriate installer here: [Win32OpenSSL](http://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html).
```

Download and run the installer. The library is expected to be installed in `C:\Program Files\OpenSSL-Win64`. Add this path to the user's or system's environment variable `PATH`.

> It's expected to be installed in `C:\OpenSSL-Win64`. Note that this version is most likely compiled for Visual Studio 2013. For other versions please follow instructions in Section **2.2.2 Build OpenSSL from Sources**.

Reviewer: Consider placing a local link here, like [Build OpenSSL from sources](#build-openssl-from-sources)

##### 2.1.1.2. Build from Sources

> Download and compile the sources from the [website](https://github.com/openssl/openssl). The instructions for compiling on Windows can be found here: [link](https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/Compilation_and_Installation#Windows).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download and compile the sources from the [OpenSSL website](https://github.com/openssl/openssl). The instructions for compiling on Windows can be found here: [link](https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/Compilation_and_Installation#Windows).
```

**Note!** `ActivePerl` and `nasm` are required to build OpenSSL.

#### 2.1.2. Install MbedTLS

`MbedTLS` source code can be downloaded from the [website](https://tls.mbed.org/download).

`MbedTLS` comes with `cmake` build system support. Use the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` variable to specify the directory that will contain the `MbedTLS` headers and libraries. Note that building `MbedTLS` as a DLL is broken in version 2.16.3. You have to link it statically.

#### 2.1.3. Install LibreSSL

`LibreSSL` has header files that are compatible with OpenSSL, `cmake` can use it like OpenSSL with little configuration. The source code and binaries can be downloaded from here: [link](https://ftp.openbsd.org/pub/OpenBSD/LibreSSL/).

> Since there have been no new Windows builds since 2.6.0, you must build a new version yourself. LibreSSL comes with `cmake` build system support. Use the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` variable to specify the directory that will contain the LibreSSL headers and libraries.

Reviewer: I think "must" sounds bad. Better say:

Since there are no new Windows builds since 2.6.0, your only option is to build from sources.

### 2.2. Threading Library

SRT can use one of these two threading libraries:

- C++11 threads (SRT v1.5.0 and above) - recommended for Windows
- `pthreads` (default)

> **Note!** `pthreads` are available by default on POSIX platforms like Linux and MacOS.

Reviewer: I don't think this note is required, provided that this is a description for Windows only.

Author: I have a feeling this document may become a general one, for all platforms. Therefore this note.

Reviewer: I think it's rather a bad idea. The only common thing is that SRT is dependent on the encryption library on all platforms - but even so, the dependency coverage instruction will be different on every platform. Moreover, the instruction for Linux and Mac are much simpler. If you look at this from the perspective of a user that is trying to install it, they will surely welcome a platform-dedicated description without the other-platform-noise.

Author: Probably you are right.

> **Note!** `pthreads` are available by default on POSIX platforms like Linux and MacOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note!** `pthreads` are available by default on POSIX platforms like Linux and macOS.
```

> This step is only required on Windows Platforms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This step is only required on Windows platforms.
```

#### 2.2.1. Using C++11 Threading

> Specify the CMake option `-DENABLE_STDCXX_SYNC=ON` ti enable C++11 Threading,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specify the CMake option `-DENABLE_STDCXX_SYNC=ON` to enable C++11 threading,
```

> and exclude the `pthreads` dependency.

Reviewer: "to" (typo).

I'd rather say:

If you want to use standard C++ threading library (available since C++11), you need to use the `-DENABLE_STDCXX_SYNC=ON` CMake build option. This way there will be also no external dependency on the threading library.

#### 2.2.2. Building PThreads

##### 2.2.2.1. Using vcpkg

**Note!** The `vcpkg` working directory is referenced as `VCPKG_ROOT`.

> Building `pthreads` library using **x64** toolset:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build the `pthreads` library using the **x64** toolset:
```

```shell
vcpkg install pthreads --triplet x64-windows
```

The next step is to integrate `vcpkg` with the build system, so that `CMake` can locate `pthreads` library.

```shell
vcpkg integrate install
```

Now go to the `srt-xtransmit` cloned folder `XTRANSMIT_ROOT` and run `cmake` to generate build configuration files.

CMake will be able to find openssl given the following option is provided:

```shell
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=%VCPKG_ROOT%\\scripts\\buildsystems\\vcpkg.cmake
```

##### 2.2.2.2. Using NuGet

NuGet package manager can be used to get a prebuilt version of `pthreads` library for Windows.

To install the prebuild version of `pthreads` for Windows,
download [nuget CLI](https://www.nuget.org/downloads) to the target folder.

Then run `nuget` to install `pthreads` to the specified path. In the example below the library will be installed in `C:\pthread-win32`.

```shell
nuget install cinegy.pthreads-win64 -version 2.9.1.17 -OutputDirectory C:\pthread-win32
```

> Two CMake options have to be provided on the step **3.2. Generate Build Files**.

Reviewer: This link is likely wrong.

> Two CMake options have to be provided on the step **3.2. Generate Build Files**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two CMake options have to be provided in step [3.2. Generate Build Files](#32-generating-build-files).
```

```shell
-DPTHREAD_INCLUDE_DIR="C:\pthread-win32\cinegy.pthreads-win64.2.9.1.17\sources"
-DPTHREAD_LIBRARY="C:\pthread-win32\cinegy.pthreads-win64.2.9.1.17\runtimes\win-x64\native\release\pthread_lib.lib"
```

##### 2.2.2.3. Build pthreads4w from Sources

Download the source code from SourceForge ([link](https://sourceforge.net/projects/pthreads4w/))

> and follow build instruction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and follow the build instructions.
```

##### 2.2.2.4. Build pthread-win32 from Sources

Compile and install `pthread-win32` for Windows from GitHub: [link](https://github.com/GerHobbelt/pthread-win32).

1. Using Visual Studio 2013, open the project file `pthread_lib.2013.vcxproj`
2. Select configuration: `Release` and `x64`.
3. Make sure that the `pthread_lib` project will be built.
4. After building, find the `pthread_lib.lib` file (directory is usually `bin\x64_MSVC2013.Release`). Copy this file to `C:\pthread-win32\lib` (or whatever other location you configured in variables).
5. Copy include files to `C:\pthread-win32\include` (`pthread.h`, `sched.h`, and `semaphore.h` are in the toplevel directory. There are no meaningful subdirs here). Note that `win##` is part of the project name. It will become `win32` or `win64` depending on the selection.

## 3. Building SRT

### 3.1. Cloning the Source Code

> Retrieve the source codes of SRT from GitHub using a git client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retrieve the SRT source code from GitHub using a git client.
```

```shell
git clone --branch <tag_name> https://github.com/haivision/srt.git srt
cd srt
set SRT_ROOT=%cd%
```

> where `--branch <tag_name>` can be used to specify the certain release version of SRT,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where `--branch <tag_name>` can be used to define a specific release version of SRT,
```

### 1.3. Package Managers

#### 1.3.1. VCpkg Packet Manager (optional)

[vcpkg](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg) is a C++ library manager for Windows, Linux and MacOS.
Consider its [prerequisites](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/README.md#quick-start) before proceeding.

The `vcpkg` library manager has preconfigured building procedures for `OpenSSL` and `pthreads` libraries.
They can be easily built and further used as dependencies of SRT library.

**Note!** `vcpkg` does not support `LibreSSL` or `MbedTLS` libraries.

Clone `vcpkg` using git, and build it.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git
cd vcpkg
.\bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
```

The current working directory will further be referenced as `VCPKG_ROOT`.

```shell
set VCPKG_ROOT=%cd%
```

#### 1.3.2. NuGet Manager (optional)

NuGet package manager can be used to get a prebuilt version of `pthreads` library for Windows.

Download [nuget CLI](https://www.nuget.org/downloads) to the desired folder.

The directory with NuGet will further be referenced as `NUGET_ROOT`.

```shell
set NUGET_ROOT=%cd%
```

## 2. Preparing Dependencies

> ### 2.1 Cryptograpjic Library

Reviewer: typo: cryptograpjic

Author: Fixed.
